.\"-
.\" zfswatcher.8
.\"
.\" Copyright © 2012-2013 Damicon Kraa Oy
.\"
.\" This file is part of zfswatcher.
.\"
.\" Zfswatcher is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" Zfswatcher is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with zfswatcher. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.\"
.TH ZFSWATCHER 8 "2013-02-18" "version 0.03"
.SH NAME
zfswatcher \- ZFS pool monitoring and notification daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zfswatcher
.RB [\| \-c
.IR config-file \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-P \|]
.RB [\| \-t \|]
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B zfswatcher
daemon periodically checks the ZFS pool status and sends notifications
about any changes according to the configuration settings. It also optionally
controls the disk enclosure LEDs and provides a web interface for viewing the
ZFS status and logs.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-conf " \fIconfig-file\fR"
Use an alternate
.I config-file
instead of the default
.IR /etc/zfs/zfswatcher.conf .
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
Enable debug mode which outputs all messages to STDOUT.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-passwordhash
Read a password and print a hashed password. This can be useful when
setting up the configuration files.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test
Test the configuration file syntax and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Reload configuration and reopen logs.
.TP
.BR SIGTERM ", " SIGINT
Terminate gracefully.
.SH EXIT STATUS
The daemon exits 0 on success, and >0 if an error occurs.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/zfs/zfswatcher.conf
Default configuration file.
.SH NOTES
The
.B zfswatcher
process does not "daemonize" itself (fork or double-fork to become a
background process) like most traditional Unix daemons do. This is a
modern approach and allows system process management daemons such as
.BR upstart (8)
and
.BR systemd (8)
to keep better control of the service. This can be worked around by
using a tool such as 
.BR start-stop-daemon (8).
.PP
Currently an external utility called
.B ledctl
which is part of the
.B ledmon
package is required for enclosure LED control.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2012-2013 Damicon Kraa Oy
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is NO
warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR zfs (8),
.BR zpool (8),
.ie !d pdfhref \
http://zfswatcher.damicon.fi/
.el \
.pdfhref W http://zfswatcher.damicon.fi/
.\" eof
